moving forward now in the last video we
talked about the pack geometry manager
and Tkinter and what we gonna do now is
start looking at the next geometry
manager that's the place
geometry manager now as I alluded to at the
end of the previous video its even simpler
than pack and it be useful
when some specific situations however it
works by specifying absolute positions
for at least one window, windows that can be position
relative to another window and unless you know the screen size of your program will
be running on the use of absolute
positioning is not recommended now for more
complicated layouts which really means
anything but the most trivial layouts you
get much better results using the grid
manager now this works as you may have
guessed by positioning widgets in a grid now less obviously the grid doesn't
really exist until you start adding
things to it
at which point its dimensions are
calculated automatically this the
way to go
instead using something like place now
this sounds like a complicated way to
design just bear in mind that widgets
in the same column can be lineup above or
below each other and also widgets in the same
row can also be lined up next to each
other and approximation to the previous
rather hideous example can be quickly
created using a grid so let's go through
this and make some changes to the code to
now support a grid we are gonna change the 400 up here to 200 change the positioning and instead of using
pack again we talked about using grids
so we are going to change that to grid and this
time instead of specifying side which is something that was only
for the pack geometry manager we need to
specify the row and columns we do that with....and
we change the frame as well so the left
frame before I had this pack anchor and
fill etc which are all part of the
pack geometry manager for grid we are gonna make that
a lot easier
again we just need to go....and for canvas will do the
same parameters for canvas but we are going to add it with the grid geometry
manager again.....
...and likewise for the right
frame we are gonna get rid of all those
parameters again and change this to a grid
and that's gonna be.....and the buttons are also going to be add
the same way
......
.....
we changing this to relative positions
minus instead of plus which we talked about
that a few videos ago now  ok if we run this you can see that
buttons are in the right place
horizontally but a lowered down on the screen
than in the pack example now what we can
do is we can set the sticky property to
position them more accurately so what the
sticky property does it takes the same
compass points anchor does when using
packs so what we are going to do now is look
at changing line 21 we're going to add......
....which is n which is our anchor point equivalent to the anchor point
that was in the pack geometry manager
will just stop this code and run again
cloes that down first starting it again and just run it so that's better we are almost right but the buttons are
now too close to the frame to fix that what we
can do is we can configure the individual
columns using the columns configure
method to give weights to each column
we are gonna discussed weight a bit more in a minute
but until a weight has been set and the
columns not sized to fit window instead it
just has the minimum width it needs to
display its content
so column configure is a way to
override that so if you look at doing that
so we going to.....
......
....then we are going to use the grid column configure command
rather than column configure I'm just going to type it and then I'll just mention that it's actually the same
command anyways so we are going to type....so we give them all
a weight and just out of interest if we have a
look at the code column configure equals
grid column configure notice how its actually
calling grid column configure anyway and
we have look at grid column configure obviously
that's that method so you can see it's called
basically calling exactly the same
method in both scenarios so our advice
here is to use the one that needs less
typing but just be aware that the other
one exists for when you're reading
someone else's code or online
documentation but they do actually both
mean the same thing
so if we run it again now
it looks pretty close to the pack example and
still not pretty but at least it's
intentional and we deliberately placed
the buttons rather than making do with
wherever pack put them and just closing
off again and of we go back to have a look at
grid column configuring again and
click into it that's control click on Windows or
Linux or command click on a Mac notice here
that in our documentation valid
resources are minsize minimum size of the
column weight how much additional space
propagates to this column and pad how
much space to let additional to the addition
to the above generally speaking if your
looking for more documentation about a
particular comment it can be really
useful jumping into the source code
like I'm showing its a quick way to check
things as to what options are available
rather than trying to track down
documentation but of course if you want more
information on the option then you have to search further as the comments a little bit small
but it can be a helpful reminder
here or just a quick way of determining that
there's three valid options you can
specify here so I just wanna bring this on the
screen now so what we've done is we've
created a grid containing to rows rows
0 and 1 column 0 and 3 columns 0 to 2 I just want to display that on
the screen you can see the frame in row
1 column 2 is being split into three
rows and what we've done is we've put
orange lines to show the grids just you can sort of see what's happening with
our code and if I go back and
show that image again you can sort of relate that to the
image itself so the grid methods
got a sticky named parameters which we mentioned
that can be used to change the position
of the widgets within their cells now
it uses compass points just as we saw with
pack and it can be used to align the widget
left right top or bottom the default if you don't
specified is center now specifying 2
opposite points such as north and south
will expand the widget to fill the cell
in that direction so setting all 4
points will fill the cell completely now to
make it easier to see how this
affects our frames what we can do is you
can give them a border and change their
appearance so they show up better so will also gonna
use sticky in our code to expand the
left frames so that's the full height
of its rows and the right frame to be the
full width of its column so lets go ahead and do that
we are going to start typing on line 34.....
......
...notice the row
height is now determined by the height of
the tallest widget it contains the right
hand frame in this case so we should be
able to run that you can see the borders
now a little bit more clear to what's
going on there so what we should be able to
do is make button 2 the full width of
its frame so right across here to the right
hand side so if you think that we come
back here and add something like.....
....and then run that bit if we do that in
notice here that it hasn't worked it still
hasn't expanded and this is where the weight option
comes into play so the weight option is
quite important in deciding the behavior
of widgets within cells so unless a
weight has been set for a column or row
them some options including sticky won't
do anything else you can see in this
example here on line 39 it had no effect on
button 2 the right frame only has one
column so if we set its weight first
then button 2 sticky option will
work so lets go ahead and do that close that
down and on that line we're gonna put....
....and leaving
the code on line 40 which sets
sticky to ew for button 2 and if we actually run
that
that now works button 2 fills the width
of the frame so the default for sticky is
center so now the column has a
weight and stickies actually being used
the remaining 2 buttons are centered
and of course because on line 40 we specified
sticky equals ew button 2 has expanded
to fill the entire space
so our layouts been useful but for experimenting
with the various options but frankly
it's a little bit boring so we can
create something a bit more useful then
have a look at the options that we used
to lay the widgets out so what we're going to do is
run the program after each step to see
the widgets as they are being added
now the weight the layout and we're going to build
is going to look something like this
close this down and bring this over so this is going to be what we are trying to build an interface that
looks something like that with a
something that you probably see in a
real application that you creating now
when designing layout it can be really
good idea to draw a rough sketch and
petition it off in two rows and columns
and I'm just gonna give an example of that so you can see the example here
we've come up with a
mock design and partitioned it off clearly
in to rows and columns like you can see
on the screen now although it's easy to
see that the label of the top of the
screen is in its own row is not
immediately obvious that the list box
spans two rows until you look at the
widgets to its right the set of radio
buttons making up the file details
selection should be grouped together so
we treat them as a single widget so their are
two different widgets on separate
rows to the right of the list box
now because we want each widget or group of
widgets to be placed into its own cell
we end up with a 5x5 grid now once you've split the
design up like this it becomes very easy
to see where everything actually goes the label is in row 0 column 0 but
spans 3 columns the list box is
placed in row 1 column 0 and spans two
rows the scroll bar is in row 1 column 1 and
also spans two rows now the spinner for
time and date are group together so they
appear in a set as a group of widgets
time in row 3 column 0 and date
in row 4 column 0 now looking at this layout there's
actually no good reason for the time and
date spinners to be here
and it's difficult to work out what the
purpose could be but all will come clean
we added them because it's useful to see how a
group controls together like this so
really we both wanted to show you how it
can be done and also show how to populate widgets
such as the spinners
althought you won't probably see something exactly like
that in a real world program at some
point you probably want to populate
fields like that and can be useful to
refer back to this code figure out how to do that so what I'm gonna do is finish
the video here now and on the next video
we're going to continue on and
start building this interface so I'll see
you in the next video